#123 Release new version of sqlalchemy exasol package on pypi (#129)
EXASOL/sqlalchemy-exasol: README.rst

------------------

We assume you have a good understanding of (unix)ODBC. If not, make sure you
read their documentation carefully - there are lot's of traps 🪤 to step into.

Meet the system requirements
````````````````````````````

On Linux/Unix like systems you need:

- An `Exasol DB <test_drive_>`_

  - >= 7.1.6
  - >= 7.0.16

- The packages unixODBC and unixODBC-dev >= 2.2.14
- Python >= 3.6
- The Exasol `ODBC driver <odbc_driver_>`_
- The ODBC.ini and ODBCINST.ini configurations files setup

Turbodbc support
````````````````

> - You can use Turbodbc with sqlalchemy_exasol if you use a python version >= 3.8.

Reviewer: is python>=3.8 because TurboODBC requires this, or what is the reason

Author: Good point, rechecked `turbodbc 3.3.0` still seems to support older versions (mistakenly checked against the current version). Still I think we would say `>=3.6` because 3.6 is what we currently test against right?

*Features*:
Features
++++++++

- SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE statements
- you can even use the MERGE statement (see unit tests for examples)

*Note*:
Notes
+++++

- Schema name and parameters are optional for the host url string
- Schema name and parameters are optional for the host url
- At least on Linux/Unix systems it has proven valuable to pass 'CONNECTIONLCALL=en_US.UTF-8' as a url parameter. This will make sure that the client process (Python) and the EXASOL driver (UTF-8 internal) know how to interpret code pages correctly.
- Always use all lower-case identifiers for schema, table and column names. SQLAlchemy treats all lower-case identifiers as case-insensitive, the dialect takes care of transforming the identifier into a case-insensitive representation of the specific database (in case of EXASol this is upper-case as for Oracle)
- As of EXASol client driver version 4.1.2 you can pass the flag 'INTTYPESINRESULTSIFPOSSIBLE=y' in the connection string (or configure it in your DSN). This will convert DECIMAL data types to Integer-like data types. Creating integers is a factor three faster in Python than creating Decimals.

Troubleshooting
```````````````

> The unixodbc Stack is not the most friendly for programmers. If you get strange errors from the driver mangager, you might have an issue with the names of the unixodbc libs. Have a look at https://github.com/blue-yonder/sqlalchemy_exasol/blob/master/fix_unixodbc_so.sh to find ideas on how to fix this on Ubuntu. Good luck!

Reviewer: Does the page the link goes to, doesn't exist anymore?

Reviewer 2: Is this the reason this section was removed?

Author: The url [https://github.com/blue-yonder/sqlalchemy_exasol/](https://github.com/blue-yonder/sqlalchemy_exasol/) is redirected to [https://github.com/exasol/sqlalchemy-exasol](https://github.com/exasol/sqlalchemy-exasol), so neither the repository nor the artifact "exists". We could reference the artifact within the git tree when it was existing, but I doubt that this will do any good.

> .. _test_drive: https://www.exasol.com/test-it-now/cloud/

Reviewer: Do we want to mention itde or docker-db?

Author: Good point was also thinking about itde, but I am unsure if it is user friendly enough just yet (no pypi package etc.).
Regarding the docker-db, I did not think about it, if you would say it is straight forward enough I would vote for us mentioning it (Did not use it on it's own yet).

	e = create_engine(url)
	r = e.execute("select 42 from dual").fetchall()

The dialect supports two types of connection urls creating an engine. A DSN (Data Source Name) mode and a host mode:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 50 50
    :header-rows: 1

   * - Type
     - Example
   * - DSN URL
     - 'exa+pyodbc://USER:PWD@exa_test'
   * - HOST URL
     - 'exa+pyodbc://USER:PWD@192.168.14.227..228:1234/my_schema?parameter'

Features
++++++++

- SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE statements
- you can even use the MERGE statement (see unit tests for examples)

Notes
+++++

- Schema name and parameters are optional for the host url
- At least on Linux/Unix systems it has proven valuable to pass 'CONNECTIONLCALL=en_US.UTF-8' as a url parameter. This will make sure that the client process (Python) and the EXASOL driver (UTF-8 internal) know how to interpret code pages correctly.
- Always use all lower-case identifiers for schema, table and column names. SQLAlchemy treats all lower-case identifiers as case-insensitive, the dialect takes care of transforming the identifier into a case-insensitive representation of the specific database (in case of EXASol this is upper-case as for Oracle)

> - As of Exasol client driver version 4.1.2 you can pass the flag 'INTTYPESINRESULTSIFPOSSIBLE=y' in the connection string (or configure it in your DSN). This will convert DECIMAL data types to Integer-like data types. Creating integers is a factor three faster in Python than creating Decimals.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- As of Exasol client driver version 4.1.2 you can pass the flag 'INTTYPESINRESULTSIFPOSSIBLE=y' in the connection string (or configure it in your DSN). This will convert DECIMAL data types to Integer-like data types. Creating integers is three times faster than creating Decimals in Python.
```

Reviewer 3: you mean that creating integers is 3x faster ?

Author: @umitbuyuksahin I don't think the original author meant that it is faster in python rather from a DB point of view.

https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/connect_exasol/drivers/odbc/using_odbc.htm
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/600911/162931765-f24278f1-a043-43e4-b13a-ba2dad3d20e2.png)

I don't think the difference for python standard use cases would be that big:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/600911/162932623-cf20a6ea-d3ed-4818-b98e-a2c7eff813f0.png)

:warning: Not 100% sure though, because that piece of text wasn't written by me.
